THE MONIKINS


By J. Fenimore Cooper




INTRODUCTION.

It is not improbable that some of those who read this book, may feel a
wish to know in what manner I became possessed of the manuscript. Such
a desire is too just and natural to be thwarted, and the tale shall be
told as briefly as possible.

During the summer of 1828, while travelling among those valleys of
Switzerland which lie between the two great ranges of the Alps, and in
which both the Rhone and the Rhine take their rise, I had passed from
the sources of the latter to those of the former river, and had reached
that basin in the mountains that is so celebrated for containing the
glacier of the Rhone, when chance gave me one of those rare moments
of sublimity and solitude, which are the more precious in the other
hemisphere from their infrequency. On every side the view was bounded
by high and ragged mountains, their peaks glittering near the sun, while
directly before me, and on a level with the eye, lay that miraculous
frozen sea, out of whose drippings the Rhone starts a foaming river, to
glance away to the distant Mediterranean. For the first time, during
a pilgrimage of years, I felt alone with nature in Europe. Alas! the
enjoyment, as all such enjoyments necessarily are amid the throngs of
the old world, was short and treacherous. A party came round the angle
of a rock, along the narrow bridle-path, in single file; two ladies on
horseback, followed by as many gentlemen on foot, and preceded by the
usual guide. It was but small courtesy to rise and salute the dove-like
eyes and blooming cheeks of the former, as they passed. They were
English, and the gentlemen appeared to recognize me as a countryman. One
of the latter stopped, and politely inquired if the passage of the
Furca was obstructed by snow. He was told not, and in return for the
information said that I would find the Grimsel a little ticklish; “but,”
 he added, smiling, “the ladies succeeded in crossing, and you will
scarcely hesitate.” I thought I might get over a difficulty that his
fair companions had conquered. He then told me Sir Herbert Taylor was
made adjutant-general, and wished me good morning.

I sat reflecting on the character, hopes, pursuits, and interests of
man, for an hour, concluding that the stranger was a soldier, who let
some of the ordinary workings of his thoughts overflow in this brief and
casual interview. To resume my solitary journey, cross the Rhone, and
toil my way up the rugged side of the Grimsel, consumed two more hours,
and glad was I to come in view of the little chill-looking sheet of
water on its summit, which is called the Lake of the Dead. The path was
filled with snow, at a most critical point, where, indeed, a misplaced
footstep might betray the incautious to their destruction. A large party
on the other side appeared fully aware of the difficulty, for it had
halted, and was in earnest discussion with the guide, touching the
practicability of passing. It was decided to attempt the enterprise.
First came a female of one of the sweetest, serenest countenances I had
ever seen. She, too, was English; and though she trembled, and blushed,
and laughed at herself, she came on with spirit, and would have reached
my side in safety, had not an unlucky stone turned beneath a foot that
was much too pretty for those wild hills. I sprang forward, and was
so happy as to save her from destruction. She felt the extent of the
obligation, and expressed her thanks modestly but with fervor. In a
minute we were joined by her husband, who grasped my hand with warm
feeling, or rather with the emotion one ought to feel who had witnessed
the risk he had just run of losing an angel. The lady seemed satisfied
at leaving us together.

“You are an Englishman?” said the stranger.

“An American.”

“An American! This is singular--will you pardon a question?--You have
more than saved my life--you have probably saved my reason--will you
pardon a question?--Can money serve you?”

I smiled, and told him, odd as it might appear to him, that though an
American, I was a gentleman. He appeared embarrassed, and his fine face
worked, until I began to pity him, for it was evident he wished to show
me in some way, how much he felt he was my debtor, and yet he did not
know exactly what to propose.

“We may meet again,” I said, squeezing his hand.

“Will you receive my card?”

“Most willingly.”

He put “Viscount Householder” into my hand, and in return I gave him my
own humble appellation.

He looked from the card to me, and from me to the card, and some
agreeable idea appeared to flash upon his mind.

“Shall you visit Geneva this summer?” he asked, earnestly.

“Within a month.”

“Your address--”

“Hotel de l'Ecu.”

“You shall hear from me. Adieu.”

We parted, he, his lovely wife, and his guides descending to the Rhone,
while I pursued my way to the Hospice of the Grimsel. Within the month I
received a large packet at l'Ecu. It contained a valuable diamond ring,
with a request that I would wear it, as a memorial of Lady Householder,
and a fairly written manuscript. The following short note explained the
wishes of the writer:

“Providence brought us together for more purposes than were at first
apparent. I have long hesitated about publishing the accompanying
narrative, for in England there is a disposition to cavil at
extraordinary facts, but the distance of America from my place of
residence will completely save me from ridicule. The world must have the
truth, and I see no better means than by resorting to your agency. All
I ask is, that you will have the book fairly printed, and that you will
send one copy to my address, Householder Hall, Dorsetshire, Eng., and
another to Captain Noah Poke, Stonington, Conn., in your own country. My
Anna prays for you, and is ever your friend. Do not forget us.

“Yours, most faithfully,”

“HOUSEHOLDER.”

I have rigidly complied with this request, and having sent the two
copies according to direction, the rest of the edition is at the
disposal of any one who may feel an inclination to pay for it. In return
for the copy sent to Stonington, I received the following letter:

“ON BOARD THE DERBY AND DOLLY, “STONNIN'TUN, April 1st, 1835.

“AUTHOR OF THE SPY, ESQUIRE:

“Dear Sir:--Your favor is come to hand, and found me in good health,
as I hope these few lines will have the same advantage with you. I have
read the book, and must say there is some truth in it, which, I suppose,
is as much as befalls any book, the Bible, the Almanac, and the State
Laws excepted. I remember Sir John well, and shall gainsay nothing he
testifies to, for the reason that friends should not contradict each
other. I was also acquainted with the four Monikins he speaks of, though
I knew them by different names. Miss Poke says she wonders if it's all
true, which I wunt tell her, seeing that a little unsartainty makes a
woman rational. As to my navigating without geometry, thats a matter
that wasn't worth booking, for it's no curiosity in these parts, bating
a look at the compass once or twice a day, and so I take my leave of
you, with offers to do any commission for you among the Sealing Islands,
for which I sail to-morrow, wind and weather permitting.

“Yours to sarve, NOAH POKE.”

“To the Author of THE SPY, Esquire, ------ town, ------ county, York
state.

“P. S.--I always told Sir John to steer clear of too much journalizing,
but he did nothing but write, night and day, for a week; and as you
brew, so you must bake. The wind has chopped, and we shall take our
anchor this tide; so no more at present.

“N. B.--Sir John is a little out about my eating the monkey, which I
did, four years before I fell in with him, down on the Spanish Main. It
was not bad food to the taste, but was wonderful narvous to the eye. I
r'ally thought I had got hold of Miss Poke's youngest born.”





THE MONIKINS.




CHAPTER I. THE AUTHOR'S PEDIGREE,--ALSO THAT OF HIS FATHER.


The philosopher who broaches a new theory is bound to furnish, at least,
some elementary proofs of the reasonableness of his positions, and the
historian who ventures to record marvels that have hitherto been hid
from human knowledge, owes it to a decent regard to the opinions of
others, to produce some credible testimony in favor of his veracity.
I am peculiarly placed in regard to these two great essentials having
little more than its plausibility to offer in favor of my philosophy,
and no other witness than myself to establish the important facts that
are now about to be laid before the reading world for the first time.
In this dilemma, I fully feel the weight of responsibility under which
I stand; for there are truths of so little apparent probability as to
appear fictitious, and fictions so like the truth that the ordinary
observer is very apt to affirm that he was an eye-witness to their
existence: two facts that all our historians would do well to bear
in mind, since a knowledge of the circumstances might spare them
the mortification of having testimony that cost a deal of trouble,
discredited in the one case, and save a vast deal of painful and
unnecessary labor, in the other. Thrown upon myself, therefore, for what
the French call les pieces justificatives of my theories, as well as of
my facts, I see no better way to prepare the reader to believe me, than
by giving an unvarnished the result of the orange-woman's application;
for had my worthy ancestor been subjected to the happy accidents and
generous caprices of voluntary charity, it is more than probable I
should be driven to throw a veil over those important years of his
life that were notoriously passed in the work-house, but which, in
consequence of that occurrence, are now easily authenticated by valid
minutes and documentary evidence. Thus it is that there exists no
void in the annals of our family, even that period which is usually
remembered through gossiping and idle tales in the lives of most men,
being matter of legal record in that of my progenitor, and so continued
to be down to the day of his presumed majority, since he was indebted to
a careful master the moment the parish could with any legality, putting
decency quite out of the question, get rid of him. I ought to have said,
that the orange-woman, taking a hint from the sign of a butcher opposite
to whose door my ancestor was found, had very cleverly given him the
name of Thomas Goldencalf.

This second important transition in the affairs of my father, might be
deemed a presage of his future fortunes. He was bound apprentice to a
trader in fancy articles, or a shopkeeper who dealt in such objects
as are usually purchased by those who do not well know what to do
with their money. This trade was of immense advantage to the future
prosperity of the young adventurer; for, in addition to the known fact
that they who amuse are much better paid than they who instruct their
fellow-creatures, his situation enabled him to study those caprices of
men, which, properly improved, are of themselves a mine of wealth, as
well as to gain a knowledge of the important truth that the greatest
events of this life are much oftener the result of impulse than of
calculation.

I have it by a direct tradition, orally conveyed from the lips of my
ancestor, that no one could be more lucky than himself in the character
of his master. This personage, who came, in time, to be my maternal
grandfather, was one of those wary traders who encourage others in their
follies, with a view to his own advantage, and the experience of fifty
years had rendered him so expert in the practices of his calling, that
it was seldom he struck out a new vein in his mine, without finding
himself rewarded for the enterprise, by a success that was fully equal
to his expectations.

“Tom,” he said one day to his apprentice, when time had produced
confidence and awakened sympathies between them, “thou art a lucky
youth, or the parish officer would never have brought thee to my
door. Thou little knowest the wealth that is in store for thee, or the
treasures that are at thy command, if thou provest diligent, and in
particular faithful to my interests.” My provident grandfather never
missed an occasion to throw in a useful moral, notwithstanding the
general character of veracity that distinguished his commerce. “Now,
what dost think, lad, may be the amount of my capital?”

My ancestor in the male line hesitated to reply, for, hitherto, his
ideas had been confined to the profits; never having dared to lift his
thoughts as high as that source from which he could not but see they
flowed in a very ample stream; but thrown upon himself by so unexpected
a question, and being quick at figures, after adding ten per cent. to
the sum which he knew the last year had given as the net avail of their
joint ingenuity, he named the amount, in answered to the interrogatory.

My maternal grandfather laughed in the face of my direct lineal
ancestor.

“Thou judgest, Tom,” he said, when his mirth was a little abated, “by
what thou thinkest is the cost of the actual stock before thine eyes,
when thou shouldst take into the account that which I term our floating
capital.”

Tom pondered a moment, for while he knew that his master had money in
the funds, he did not account that as any portion of the available means
connected with his ordinary business; and as for a floating capital,
he did not well see how it could be of much account, since the
disproportion between the cost and the selling prices of the different
articles in which they dealt was so great, that there was no particular
use in such an investment. As his master, however, rarely paid for
anything until he was in possession of returns from it that exceeded the
debt some seven-fold, he began to think the old man was alluding to the
advantages he obtained in the way of credit, and after a little more
cogitation, he ventured to say as much.

Again my maternal grandfather indulged in a hearty fit of laughter.

“Thou art clever in thy way, Tom,” he said, “and I like the minuteness
of thy calculations, for they show an aptitude for trade; but there
is genius in our calling as well as cleverness. Come hither, boy,” he
added, drawing Tom to a window whence they could see the neighbors
on their way to church, for it was on a Sunday that my two provident
progenitors indulged in this moral view of humanity, as best fitted the
day, “come hither, boy, and thou shalt see some small portion of that
capital which thou seemest to think hid, stalking abroad by daylight,
and in the open streets. Here, thou seest the wife of our neighbor,
the pastry-cook; with what an air she tosses her head and displays the
bauble thou sold'st her yesterday: well, even that slattern, idle and
vain, and little worthy of trust as she is, carries about with her a
portion of my capital!”

Of this subdued and unobtrusive sorrow, for I fear it sometimes reached
that intensity of feeling, my excellent and indefatigable ancestor
appeared to have no suspicion. He pursued his ordinary occupations with
his ordinary single-minded devotion, and the last thing that would have
crossed his brain was the suspicion that he had not punctiliously done
his duty by his ward. Had he acted otherwise, none surely would have
suffered more by his delinquency than her husband, and none would have
a better right to complain. Now, as her husband never dreamt of making
such an accusation, it is not at all surprising that my ancestor
remained in ignorance of his wife's feelings at the hour of his death.

It has been said that the opinions of the successor of the fancy-dealer
underwent some essential changes between the ages of ten and forty.
After he had reached his twenty-second year, or, in other words, the
moment he began to earn money for himself, as well as for his master,
he ceased to cry “Wilkes and liberty!” He was not heard to breathe
a syllable concerning the obligations of society toward the weak and
unfortunate, for the five years that succeeded his majority; he touched
lightly on Christian duties in general, after he got to be worth fifty
pounds of his own; and as for railing at human follies, it would have
been rank ingratitude in one who so very unequivocally got his bread by
them. About this time, his remarks on the subject of taxation, however,
were singularly caustic, and well applied. He railed at the public debt,
as a public curse, and ominously predicted the dissolution of
society, in consequence of the burdens and incumbrances it was hourly
accumulating on the already overloaded shoulders of the trader.

The period of his marriage and his succession to the hoardings of his
former master, may be dated as the second epocha in the opinions of my
ancestor. From this moment his ambition expanded, his views enlarged in
proportion to his means, and his contemplations on the subject of his
great floating capital became more profound and philosophical. A man
of my ancestor's native sagacity, whose whole soul was absorbed in the
pursuit of gain, who had so long been forming his mind, by dealing as
it were with the elements of human weaknesses, and who already possessed
four hundred thousand pounds, was very likely to strike out for himself
some higher road to eminence, than that in which he had been laboriously
journeying, during the years of painful probation. The property of
my mother had been chiefly invested in good bonds and mortgages;
her protector, patron, benefactor, and legalized father, having an
unconquerable repugnance to confiding in that soulless, conventional,
nondescript body corporate, the public. The first indication that was
given by my ancestor of a change of purpose in the direction of his
energies, was by calling in the whole of his outstanding debts, and
adopting the Napoleon plan of operations, by concentrating his forces on
a particular point, in order that he might operate in masses. About this
time, too, he suddenly ceased railing at taxation. This change may
be likened to that which occurs in the language of the ministerial
journals, when they cease abusing any foreign state with whom the nation
has been carrying on a war, that it is, at length, believed politic to
terminate; and for much the same reason, as it was the intention of my
thrifty ancestor to make an ally of a power that he had hitherto always
treated as an enemy. The whole of the four hundred thousand pounds were
liberally intrusted to the country, the former fancy-dealer's apprentice
entering the arena of virtuous and patriotic speculation, as a bull;
and, if with more caution, with at least some portion of the energy
and obstinacy of the desperate animal that gives title to this class of
adventurers. Success crowned his laudable efforts; gold rolled in
upon him like water on a flood, buoying him up, soul and body, to that
enviable height, where, as it would seem, just views can alone be taken
of society in its innumerable phases. All his former views of life,
which, in common with others of a similar origin and similar political
sentiments, he had imbibed in early years, and which might with
propriety be called near views, were now completely obscured by the
sublimer and broader prospect that was spread before him.

I am afraid the truth will compel me to admit, that my ancestor was
never charitable in the vulgar acceptation of the term; but then, he
always maintained that his interest in his fellow-creatures was of a
more elevated cast, taking a comprehensive glance at all the bearings
of good and evil--being of the sort of love which induces the parent to
correct the child, that the lesson of present suffering may produce
the blessings of future respectability and usefulness. Acting on
these principles, he gradually grew more estranged from his species in
appearance, a sacrifice that was probably exacted by the severity of his
practical reproofs for their growing wickedness, and the austere policy
that was necessary to enforce them. By this time, my ancestor was also
thoroughly impressed with what is called the value of money; a sentiment
which, I believe, gives its possessor a livelier perception than common
of the dangers of the precious metals, as well as of their privileges
and uses. He expatiated occasionally on the guaranties that it was
necessary to give to society, for its own security; never even voted for
a parish officer unless he were a warm substantial citizen; and began to
be a subscriber to the patriotic fund, and to the other similar little
moral and pecuniary buttresses of the government, whose common and
commendable object was, to protect our country, our altars, and our
firesides.

The death-bed of my mother has been described to me as a touching and
melancholy scene. It appears that as this meek and retired woman was
extricated from the coil of mortality, her intellect grew brighter, her
powers of discernment stronger, and her character in every respect
more elevated and commanding. Although she had said much less about our
firesides and altars than her husband, I see no reason to doubt that she
had ever been quite as faithful as he could be to the one, and as
much devoted to the other. I shall describe the important event of her
passage from this to a better world, as I have often had it repeated
from the lips of one who was present, and who has had an important
agency in since making me the man I am. This person was the clergyman of
the parish, a pious divine, a learned man, and a gentleman in feeling as
well as by extraction.

My mother, though long conscious that she was drawing near to her
last great account, had steadily refused to draw her husband from his
absorbing pursuits, by permitting him to be made acquainted with her
situation. He knew that she was ill; very ill, as he had reason to
think; but, as he not only allowed her, but even volunteered to order
her all the advice and relief that money could command (my ancestor was
not a miser in the vulgar meaning of the word), he thought that he had
done all that man could do, in a case of life and death--interests
over which he professed to have no control. He saw Dr. Etherington,
the rector, come and go daily, for a month, without uneasiness
or apprehension, for he thought his discourse had a tendency to
tranquillize my mother, and he had a strong affection for all that left
him undisturbed, to the enjoyment of the occupation in which his whole
energies were now completely centred. The physician got his guinea at
each visit, with scrupulous punctuality; the nurses were well received
and were well satisfied, for no one interfered with their acts but
the doctor; and every ordinary duty of commission was as regularly
discharged by my ancestor, as if the sinking and resigned creature
from whom he was about to be forever separated had been the spontaneous
choice of his young and fresh affections.

When, therefore, a servant entered to say that Dr. Etherington desired
a private interview, my worthy ancestor, who had no consciousness of
having neglected any obligation that became a friend of church and
state, was in no small measure surprised.

“I come, Mr. Goldencalf, on a melancholy duty,” said the pious rector,
entering the private cabinet to which his application had for the
first time obtained his admission; “the fatal secret can no longer be
concealed from you, and your wife at length consents that I shall be the
instrument of revealing it.”

The Doctor paused; for on such occasions it is perhaps as well to let
the party that is about to be shocked receive a little of the blow
through his own imagination; and busily enough was that of my poor
father said to be exercised on this painful occasion. He grew pale,
opened his eyes until they again filled the sockets into which they had
gradually been sinking for twenty years, and looked a hundred questions
that his tongue refused to put.

“It cannot be, Doctor,” he at length querulously said, “that a woman
like Betsey has got an inkling into any of the events connected with
the last great secret expedition, and which have escaped my jealousy and
experience?”

“I am afraid, dear sir, that Mrs. Goldencalf has obtained glimpses of
the last great and secret expedition on which we must all, sooner or
later, embark, that have entirely escaped your vigilance. But of this I
will speak some other time. At present it is my painful duty to inform
you it is the opinion of the physician that your excellent wife cannot
outlive the day, if, indeed, she do the hour.”

My father was struck with this intelligence, and for more than a minute
he remained silent and without motion. Casting his eyes toward the
papers on which he had lately been employed, and which contained some
very important calculations connected with the next settling day, he at
length resumed:

“If this be really so, Doctor, it may be well for me to go to her, since
one in the situation of the poor woman may indeed have something of
importance to communicate.”

“It is with this object that I have now come to tell you the truth,”
 quietly answered the divine, who knew that nothing was to be gained by
contending with the besetting weakness of such a man, at such a moment.

My father bent his head in assent, and, first carefully enclosing the
open papers in a secretary, he followed his companion to the bedside of
his dying wife.




CHAPTER II. TOUCHING MYSELF AND TEN THOUSAND POUNDS.


Although my ancestor was much too wise to refuse to look back upon his
origin in a worldly point of view, he never threw his retrospective
glances so far as to reach the sublime mystery of his moral existence;
and while his thoughts might be said to be ever on the stretch to attain
glimpses into the future, they were by far too earthly to extend beyond
any other settling day than those which were regulated by the ordinances
of the stock exchange. With him, to be born was but the commencement of
a speculation, and to die was to determine the general balance of profit
and loss. A man who had so rarely meditated on the grave changes of
mortality, therefore, was consequently so much the less prepared to gaze
upon the visible solemnities of a death-bed. Although he had never truly
loved my mother, for love was a sentiment much too pure and elevated
for one whose imagination dwelt habitually on the beauties of the
stock-books, he had ever been kind to her, and of late he was even
much disposed, as has already been stated, to contribute as much to
her temporal comforts as comported with his pursuits and habits. On
the other hand, the quiet temperament of my mother required some more
exciting cause than the affections of her husband, to quicken those
germs of deep, placid, womanly love, that certainly lay dormant in her
heart, like seed withering with the ungenial cold of winter. The last
meeting of such a pair was not likely to be attended with any violent
outpourings of grief.

My ancestor, notwithstanding, was deeply struck with the physical
changes in the appearance of his wife.

“Thou art much emaciated, Betsey,” he said, taking her hand kindly,
after a long and solemn pause; “much more so than I had thought, or
could have believed! Dost nurse give thee comforting soups and generous
nourishment?”

My mother smiled the ghastly smile of death; but waved her hand, with
loathing, at his suggestion.

“All this is now too late, Mr. Goldencalf,” she answered, speaking with
a distinctness and an energy for which she had long been reserving her
strength. “Food and raiment are no longer among my wants.”

“Well, well, Betsey, one that is in want of neither food nor raiment,
cannot be said to be in great suffering, after all; and I am glad that
thou art so much at ease. Dr. Etherington tells me thou art far from
being well bodily, however, and I am come expressly to see if I can
order anything that will help to make thee more easy.”

“Mr. Goldencalf, you can. My wants for this life are nearly over;
a short hour or two will remove me beyond the world, its cares, its
vanities, its--” My poor mother probably meant to add, its heartlessness
or its selfishness; but she rebuked herself, and paused: “By the mercy
of our blessed Redeemer, and through the benevolent agency of this
excellent man,” she resumed, glancing her eye upwards at first with
holy reverence, and then at the divine with meek gratitude, “I quit you
without alarm, and were it not for one thing, I might say without care.”

“And what is there to distress thee, in particular, Betsey?” asked my
father, blowing his nose, and speaking with unusual tenderness; “if it
be in my power to set thy heart at ease on this, or on any other point,
name it, and I will give orders to have it immediately performed. Thou
hast been a good pious woman, and canst have little to reproach thyself
with.”

My mother looked earnestly and wistfully at her husband. Never before
had he betrayed so strong an interest in her happiness, and had it not,
alas! been too late, this glimmering of kindness might have lighted the
matrimonial torch into a brighter flame than had ever yet glowed upon
the past.

“Mr. Goldencalf, we have an only son--”

“We have, Betsey, and it may gladden thee to hear that the physician
thinks the boy more likely to live than either of his poor brothers and
sisters.”

I cannot explain the holy and mysterious principle of maternal nature
that caused my mother to clasp her hands, to raise her eyes to heaven,
and, while a gleam flitted athwart her glassy eyes and wan cheeks, to
murmur her thanks to God for the boon. She was herself hastening away
to the eternal bliss of the pure of mind and the redeemed, and her
imagination, quiet and simple as it was, had drawn pictures in which she
and her departed babes were standing before the throne of the Most High,
chanting his glory, and shining amid the stars--and yet was she now
rejoicing that the last and the most cherished of all her offsprings
was likely to be left exposed to the evils, the vices, nay, to the
enormities, of the state of being that she herself so willingly
resigned.

“It is of our boy that I wish now to speak, Mr. Goldencalf,” replied my
mother, when her secret devotion was ended. “The child will have need of
instruction and care; in short, of both mother and father.”

“Betsey, thou forgettest that he will still have the latter.”

“You are much wrapped up in your business, Mr. Goldencalf, and are not,
in other respects, qualified to educate a boy born to the curse and to
the temptations of immense riches.”

My excellent ancestor looked as if he thought his dying consort had in
sooth finally taken leave of her senses.

“There are public schools, Betsey; I promise thee the child shall not be
forgotten: I will have him well taught, though it cost me a thousand a
year!”

His wife reached forth her emaciated hand to that of my father, and
pressed the latter with as much force as a dying mother could use. For
a fleet moment she even appeared to have gotten rid of her latest
care. But the knowledge of character that had been acquired by the hard
experience of thirty years, was not to be unsettled by the gratitude of
a moment.

“I wish, Mr. Goldencalf,” she anxiously resumed, “to receive your solemn
promise to commit the education of our boy to Dr. Etherington--you know
his worth, and must have full confidence in such a man.”

“Nothing would give me greater satisfaction, my dear Betsey; and if Dr.
Etherington will consent to receive him, I will send Jack to his house
this very evening; for, to own the truth, I am but little qualified to
take charge of a child under a year old. A hundred a year, more or less,
shall not spoil so good a bargain.”

The divine was a gentleman, and he looked grave at this speech, though,
meeting the anxious eyes of my mother, his own lost their displeasure in
a glance of reassurance and pity.

“The charges of his education will be easily settled, Mr. Goldencalf,”
 added my mother; “but the Doctor has consented with difficulty to take
the responsibility of my poor babe, and that only under two conditions.”

The stock-dealer required an explanation with his eyes.

“One is, that the child shall be left solely to his own care, after
he has reached his fourth year; and the other is, that you make an
endowment for the support of two poor scholars, at one of the principal
schools.”

As my mother got out the last words, she fell back on her pillow, whence
her interest in the subject had enabled her to lift her head a little,
and she fairly gasped for breath, in the intensity of her anxiety to
hear the answer. My ancestor contracted his brow, like one who saw it
was a subject that required reflection.

“Thou dost not know perhaps, Betsey, that these endowments swallow up a
great deal of money--a great deal--and often very uselessly.”

“Ten thousand pounds is the sum that has been agreed upon between Mrs.
Goldencalf and me,” steadily remarked the Doctor, who, in my soul, I
believe had hoped that his condition would be rejected, having yielded
to the importunities of a dying woman, rather than to his own sense of
that which might be either very desirable or very useful.

“Ten thousand pounds!”

My mother could not speak, though she succeeded in making an imploring
sign of assent.

“Ten thousand pounds is a great deal of money, my dear Betsey--a very
great deal!”

The color of my mother changed to the hue of death, and by her breathing
she appeared to be in the agony.

“Well, well, Betsey,” said my father a little hastily, for he was
frightened at her pallid countenance and extreme distress, “have
it thine own way--the money, yes, yes--it shall be given as thou
wishest--now set thy kind heart at rest.”

The revulsion of feeling was too great for one whose system had been
wound up to a state of excitement like that which had sustained my
mother, who, an hour before, had seemed scarcely able to speak. She
extended her hand toward her husband, smiled benignantly in his face,
whispered the word “Thanks,” and then, losing all her powers of body,
sank into the last sleep, as tranquilly as the infant drops its head
on the bosom of the nurse. This was, after all, a sudden, and, in one
sense, an unexpected death: all who witnessed it were struck with awe.
My father gazed for a whole minute intently on the placid features
of his wife, and left the room in silence. He was followed by Dr.
Etherington, who accompanied him to the private apartment where they
had first met that night, neither uttering a syllable until both were
seated.

“Of that, sir, it is unnecessary to speak,” interrupted my ancestor,
both promptly and proudly. “I am a wary man, and a prudent man, and am
one who knows the value of money, I trust; but I am no miser, to stint
my own flesh and blood. Jack shall never want for anything, while it
is in my power to give it. I am by no means as rich, sir, as the
neighborhood supposes; but then I am no beggar. I dare say, if all my
assets were fairly counted, it might be found that I am worth a plum.”

“You are said to have received a much larger sum than that with the late
Mrs. Goldencalf,” the divine observed, not without reproof in his voice.

“Ah, dear sir, I need not tell you what vulgar rumor is--but I shall not
undermine my own credit; and we will change the subject. My object,
Dr. Etherington, was merely to do justice. Poor Betsey desired that ten
thousand pounds might be given to found a scholarship or two: now, what
have these scholars done, or what are they likely to do, for me or
mine? The case is different with you, sir; you will have trouble--much
trouble, I make no doubt; and it is proper that you should have a
sufficient compensation. I was about to propose, therefore, that you
should consent to receive my check for three, or four, or even for five
thousand pounds,” continued my ancestor, raising the offer as he saw the
frown on the brow of the Doctor deepen. “Yes, sir, I will even say the
latter sum, which possibly will not be too much for your trouble and
care; and we will forget the womanish plan of poor Betsey in relation to
the two scholarships and the charity. Five thousand pounds down, Doctor,
for yourself, and the subject of the charity forgotten forever.”

When my father had thus distinctly put his proposition, he awaited its
effect with the confidence of a man who had long dealt with cupidity.
For a novelty, his calculation failed. The face of Dr. Etherington
flushed, then paled, and finally settled into a look of melancholy
reprehension. He arose and paced the room for several minutes in
silence; during which time his companion believed he was debating with
himself on the chances of obtaining a higher bid for his consent, when
he suddenly stopped and addressed my ancestor in a mild but steady tone.

“I feel it to be a duty, Mr. Goldencalf,” he said, “to admonish you of
the precipice over which you hang. The love of money, which is the root
of all evil, which caused Judas to betray even his Saviour and God,
has taken deep root in your soul. You are no longer young, and although
still proud in your strength and prosperity, are much nearer to your
great account than you may be willing to believe. It is not an hour
since you witnessed the departure of a penitent soul for the presence of
her God; since you heard the dying request from her lips; and since, in
such a presence and in such a scene, you gave a pledge to respect her
wishes, and, now, with the accursed spirit of gain upper-most, you would
trifle with these most sacred obligations, in order to keep a little
worthless gold in a hand that is already full to overflowing. Fancy that
the pure spirit of thy confiding and single-minded wife were present
at this conversation; fancy it mourning over thy weakness and violated
faith--nay, I know not that such is not the fact; for there is no reason
to believe that the happy spirits are not permitted to watch near, and
mourn over us, until we are released from this mass of sin and depravity
in which we dwell--and, then, reflect what must be her sorrow at hearing
how soon her parting request is forgotten, how useless has been
the example of her holy end, how rooted and fearful are thine own
infirmities!”

My father was more rebuked by the manner than by the words of the
divine. He passed his hand across his brow, as if to shut out the view
of his wife's spirit; turned, drew his writing materials nearer, wrote a
check for the ten thousand pounds, and handed it to the Doctor with the
subdued air of a corrected boy.

“Jack shall be at your disposal, good sir,” he said, as the paper was
delivered, “whenever it may be your pleasure to send for him.”

They parted in silence; the divine too much displeased, and my ancestor
too much grieved, to indulge in words of ceremony.

When my father found himself alone, he gazed furtively about the room,
to assure himself that the rebuking spirit of his wife had not taken
a shape less questionable than air, and then, he mused for at least an
hour, very painfully, on all the principal occurrences of the night. It
is said that occupation is a certain solace for grief, and so it proved
to be in the present case; for luckily my father had made up that very
day his private account of the sum total of his fortune. Sitting down,
therefore, to the agreeable task, he went through the simple process of
subtracting from it the amount for which he had just drawn, and, finding
that he was still master of seven hundred and eighty-two thousand three
hundred and eleven pounds odd shillings and even pence, he found a very
natural consolation for the magnitude of the sum he had just given away,
by comparing it with the magnitude of that which was left.




CHAPTER III. OPINIONS OF OUR AUTHOR'S ANCESTOR, TOGETHER WITH SOME OF
HIS OWN, AND SOME OF OTHER PEOPLE'S.


Dr. Etherington was both a pious man and a gentleman. The second son
of a baronet of ancient lineage, he had been educated in most of the
opinions of his caste, and possibly he was not entirely above its
prejudices; but, this much admitted, few divines were more willing
to defer to the ethics and principles of the Bible than himself. His
humility had, of course, a decent regard to station; his charity was
judiciously regulated by the articles of faith; and his philanthropy was
of the discriminating character that became a warm supporter of church
and state.

In accepting the trust which he was now obliged to assume, he had
yielded purely to a benevolent wish to smooth the dying pillow of my
mother. Acquainted with the character of her husband, he had committed a
sort of pious fraud, in attaching the condition of the endowment to his
consent; for, notwithstanding the becoming language of his own rebuke,
the promise, and all the other little attendant circumstances of the
night, it might be questioned which felt the most surprise after
the draft was presented and duly honored, he who found himself in
possession, or he who found himself deprived, of the sum of ten thousand
pounds sterling. Still Dr. Etherington acted with the most scrupulous
integrity in the whole affair; and although I am aware that a writer who
has so many wonders to relate, as must of necessity adorn the succeeding
pages of this manuscript, should observe a guarded discretion in drawing
on the credulity of his readers, truth compels me to add, that every
farthing of the money was duly invested with a single eye to the wishes
of the dying Christian, who, under Providence, had been the means of
bestowing so much gold on the poor and unlettered. As to the manner in
which the charity was finally improved, I shall say nothing, since no
inquiry on my part has ever enabled me to obtain such information as
would justify my speaking with authority.

As for myself, I shall have little more to add touching the events of
the succeeding twenty years. I was baptized, nursed, breeched, schooled,
horsed, confirmed, sent to the university, and graduated, much as
befalls all gentlemen of the established church in the united kingdoms
of Great Britain and Ireland, or, in other words, of the land of my
ancestor. During these pregnant years, Dr. Etherington acquitted himself
of a duty that, judging by a very predominant feeling of human nature
(which, singularly enough, renders us uniformly averse to being troubled
with other people's affairs), I think he must have found sufficiently
vexatious, quite as well as my good mother had any right to expect. Most
of my vacations were spent at his rectory; for he had first married,
then become a father, next a widower, and had exchanged his town living
for one in the country, between the periods of my mother's death and
that on my going to Eton; and, after I quitted Oxford, much more of my
time was passed beneath his friendly roof than beneath that of my own
parent. Indeed, I saw little of the latter. He paid my bills, furnished
me with pocket-money, and professed an intention to let me travel after
I should reach my majority. But, satisfied with these proofs of paternal
care, he appeared willing to let me pursue my own course very much in my
own way.

My ancestor was an eloquent example of the truth of that political dogma
which teaches the efficacy of the division of labor. No manufacturer of
the head of a pin ever attained greater dexterity in his single-minded
vocation than was reached by my father in the one pursuit to which he
devoted, as far as human ken could reach, both soul and body. As any
sense is known to increase in acuteness by constant exercise, or any
passion by indulgence, so did his ardor in favor of the great object
of his affections grow with its growth, and become more manifest as an
ordinary observer would be apt to think the motive of its existence at
all had nearly ceased. This is a moral phenomenon that I have often had
occasion to observe, and which, there is some reason to think, depends
on a principle of attraction that has hitherto escaped the sagacity of
the philosophers, but which is as active in the immaterial, as is that
of gravitation in the material world. Talents like his, so incessantly
and unweariedly employed, produced the usual fruits. He grew richer
hourly, and at the time of which I speak he was pretty generally known
to the initiated to be the warmest man who had anything to do with the
stock exchange.

I do not think that the opinions of my ancestor underwent as many
material changes between the ages of fifty and seventy as they had
undergone between the ages of ten and forty. During the latter period
the tree of life usually gets deep root, its inclination is fixed,
whether obtained by bending to the storms, or by drawing toward the
light; and it probably yields more in fruits of its own, than it gains
by tillage and manuring. Still my ancestor was not exactly the same man
the day he kept his seventieth birthday as he had been the day he kept
his fiftieth. In the first place, he was worth thrice the money at the
former period that he had been worth at the latter. Of course his moral
system had undergone all the mutations that are known to be dependent on
a change of this important character. Beyond a question, during the last
five-and-twenty years of the life of my ancestor, his political bias,
too, was in favor of exclusive privileges and exclusive benefits. I do
not mean that he was an aristocrat in the vulgar acceptation. To
him, feudality was a blank; he had probably never heard the word.
Portcullises rose and fell, flanking towers lifted their heads, and
embattled walls swept around their fabrics in vain, so far as his
imagination was concerned. He cared not for the days of courts leet and
courts baron; nor for the barons themselves; nor for the honors of a
pedigree (why should he?--no prince in the land could more clearly
trace his family into obscurity than himself), nor for the vanities of
a court, nor for those of society; nor for aught else of the same nature
that is apt to have charms for the weak-minded, the imaginative, or
the conceited. His political prepossessions showed themselves in a very
different manner. Throughout the whole of the five lustres I have named,
he was never heard to whisper a censure against government, let its
measures, or the character of its administration, be what it would.
It was enough for him that it was government. Even taxation no longer
excited his ire, nor aroused his eloquence. He conceived it to be
necessary to order, and especially to the protection of property, a
branch of political science that he had so studied as to succeed in
protecting his own estate, in a measure, against even this great ally
itself. After he became worth a million, it was observed that all his
opinions grew less favorable to mankind in general, and that he was much
disposed to exaggerate the amount and quality of the few boons which
Providence has bestowed on the poor. The report of a meeting of the
Whigs generally had an effect on his appetite; a resolution that was
suspected of emanating from Brookes's commonly robbed him of a dinner,
and the Radicals never seriously moved that he did not spend a sleepless
night, and pass a large portion of the next day in uttering words that
it would be hardly moral to repeat. I may without impropriety add,
however, that on such occasions he did not spare allusions to the
gallows; Sir Francis Burdett, in particular, was a target for a good
deal of billingsgate; and men as upright and as respectable even as my
lords Grey, Landsdowne, and Holland, were treated as if they were
no better than they should be. But on these little details it is
unnecessary to dwell, for it must be a subject of common remark, that
the more elevated and refined men become in their political ethics, the
more they are accustomed to throw dirt upon their neighbors. I will
just state, however, that most of what I have here related has been
transmitted to me by direct oral traditions, for I seldom saw my
ancestor, and when we did meet, it was only to settle accounts, to eat a
leg of mutton together, and to part like those who, at least, have never
quarrelled.

Not so with Dr. Etherington. Habit (to say nothing of my own merits)
had attached him to one who owed so much to his care, and his doors were
always as open to me as if I had been his own son.

It has been said that most of my idle time (omitting the part misspent
in the schools) was passed at the rectory.

The excellent divine had married a lovely woman, a year or two after
the death of my mother, who had left him a widower, and the father of a
little image of herself, before the expiration of a twelvemonth. Owing
to the strength of his affections for the deceased, or for his daughter,
or because he could not please himself in a second marriage as well as
it had been his good fortune to do in the first, Dr. Etherington had
never spoken of forming another connection. He appeared content to
discharge his duties, as a Christian and a gentleman, without increasing
them by creating any new relations with society.

Anna Etherington was of course my constant companion during many
long and delightful visits at the rectory. Three years my junior,
the friendship on my part had commenced by a hundred acts of boyish
kindness. Between the ages of seven and twelve, I dragged her about in
a garden-chair, pushed her on the swing, and wiped her eyes and uttered
words of friendly consolation when any transient cloud obscured the
sunny brightness of her childhood. From twelve to fourteen, I told her
stories; astonished her with narratives of my own exploits at Eton,
and caused her serene blue eyes to open in admiration at the marvels of
London. At fourteen, I began to pick up her pocket-handkerchief, hunt
for her thimble, accompany her in duets, and to read poetry to her,
as she occupied herself with the little lady-like employments of the
needle. About the age of seventeen I began to compare cousin Anna, as
I was permitted to call her, with the other young girls of my
acquaintance, and the comparison was generally much in her favor. It was
also about this time that, as my admiration grew more warm and manifest,
she became less confiding and less frank; I perceived too that, for a
novelty, she now had some secrets that she did not choose to communicate
to me, that she was more with her governess, and less in my society
than formerly, and on one occasion (bitterly did I feel the slight)
she actually recounted to her father the amusing incidents of a little
birthday fete at which she had been present, and which was given by
a gentleman of the vicinity, before she even dropped a hint to me,
touching the delight she had experienced on the occasion. I was,
however, a good deal compensated for the slight by her saying, kindly,
as she ended her playful and humorous account of the affair:

“It would have made you laugh heartily, Jack, to see the droll manner
in which the servants acted their parts” (there had been a sort of
mystified masque), “more particularly the fat old butler, of whom they
had made a Cupid, as Dick Griffin said, in order to show that love
becomes drowsy and dull by good eating and drinking--I DO wish you COULD
have been there, Jack.”

Anna was a gentle feminine girl, with a most lovely and winning
countenance, and I did inherently like to hear her pronounce the word
“Jack”--it was so different from the boisterous screech of the Eton
boys, or the swaggering call of my boon companions at Oxford!

“I should have liked it excessively myself, Anna,” I answered; “more
particularly as you seem to have so much enjoyed the fun.”

“Yes, but that COULD NOT BE” interrupted Miss-Mrs. Norton, the
governess. “For Sir Harry Griffin is very difficult about his
associates, and you know, my dear, that Mr. Goldencalf, though a very
respectable young man himself, could not expect one of the oldest
baronets of the county to go out of his way to invite the son of a
stock-jobber to be present at a fete given to his own heir.”

Luckily for Miss-Mrs. Norton, Dr. Etherington had walked away the
moment his daughter ended her recital, or she might have met with
a disagreeable commentary on her notions concerning the fitness of
associations. Anna herself looked earnestly at her governess, and I saw
a flush mantle over her sweet face that reminded me of the ruddiness of
morn. Her soft eyes then fell to the floor, and it was some time before
she spoke.

The next day I was arranging some fishing-tackle under a window of the
library, where my person was concealed by the shrubbery, when I heard
the melodious voice of Anna wishing the rector good morning. My heart
beat quicker as she approached the casement, tenderly inquiring of her
parent how he had passed the night. The answers were as affectionate as
the questions, and then there was a little pause.

“What is a stock-jobber, father?” suddenly resumed Anna, whom I heard
rustling the leaves above my head.

“A stock-jobber, my dear, is one who buys and sells in the public funds,
with a view to profit.”

“And is it thought a PARTICULARLY disgraceful employment?”

“Why, that depends on circumstances. On 'Change it seems to be well
enough--among merchants and bankers there is some odium attached to it,
I believe.”

“And can you say why, father?”

“I believe,” said Dr. Etherington, laughing, “for no other reason
than that it is an uncertain calling--one that is liable to sudden
reverses--what is termed gambling--and whatever renders property
insecure is sure to obtain odium among those whose principal concern
is its accumulation; those who consider the responsibility of others of
essential importance to themselves.”

“But is it a dishonest pursuit, father?”

“As the times go, not necessarily, my dear; though it may readily become
so.”

“And is it disreputable, generally, with the world?”

“That depends on circumstances, Anna. When the stock-jobber loses, he
is very apt to be condemned; but I rather think his character rises in
proportion to his gains. But why do you ask these singular questions,
love?”

I thought I heard Anna breathe harder than usual, and it is certain that
she leaned far out of the window to pluck a rose.

“Why, Mrs. Norton said Jack was not invited to Sir Harry Griffin's
because his father was a stock-jobber. Do you think she was right, sir?”

“Very likely, my dear,” returned the divine, who I fancied was smiling
at the question. “Sir Harry has the advantages of birth, and he probably
did not forget that our friend Jack was not so fortunate--and, moreover,
Sir Harry, while he values himself on his wealth, is not as rich as
Jack's father by a million or two--in other words, as they say on
'Change, Jack's father could buy ten of him. This motive was perhaps
more likely to influence him than the first. In addition, Sir Harry is
suspected of gambling himself in the funds through the aid of agents;
and a gentleman who resorts to such means to increase his fortune is a
little apt to exaggerate his social advantages by way of a set-off to
the humiliation.”

“And GENTLEMEN do really become stock-jobbers, father?”

“Anna, the world has undergone great changes in my time. Ancient
opinions have been shaken, and governments themselves are getting to
be little better than political establishments to add facilities to the
accumulation of money. This is a subject, however, you cannot very well
understand, nor do I pretend to be very profound in it myself.”

“But is Jack's father really so very, very rich?” asked Anna, whose
thoughts had been wandering from the thread of those pursued by her
father.

“He is believed to be so.”

“And Jack is his heir.”

“Certainly--he has no other child; though it is not easy to say what so
singular a being may do with his money.”

“I hope he will disinherit Jack!”

“You surprise me, Anna! You, who are so mild and reasonable, to wish
such a misfortune to befall our young friend John Goldencalf!” I gazed
upward in astonishment at this extraordinary speech of Anna, and at the
moment I would have given all my interest in the fortune in question to
have seen her face (most of her body was out of the window, for I heard
her again rustling the bush above my head), in order to judge of her
motive by its expression; but an envious rose grew exactly in the only
spot where it was possible to get a glimpse.

“Why do you wish so cruel a thing?” resumed Dr. Etherington, a little
earnestly.

“Because I hate stock-jobbing and its riches, father. Were Jack poorer,
it seems to me he would be better esteemed.”

As this was uttered the dear girl drew back, and I then perceived that
I had mistaken her cheek for one of the largest and most blooming of the
flowers. Dr. Etherington laughed, and I distinctly heard him kiss the
blushing face of his daughter. I think I would have given up my hopes in
another million to have been the rector at Tenthpig at that instant.

“If that be all, child,” he answered, “set thy heart at rest. Jack's
money will never bring him into contempt unless through the use he may
make of it. Alas! Anna, we live in an age of corruption and cupidity!
Generous motives appear to be lost sight of in the general desire
of gain; and he who would manifest a disposition to a pure and
disinterested philanthropy is either distrusted as a hypocrite or
derided as a fool. The accursed revolution among our neighbors the
French has quite unsettled opinions, and religion itself has tottered
in the wild anarchy of theories to which it has given rise. There is no
worldly advantage that has been more austerely denounced by the divine
writers than riches, and yet it is fast rising to be the god of the
ascendant. To say nothing of an hereafter, society is getting to be
corrupted by it to the core, and even respect for birth is yielding to
the mercenary feeling.”

“And do you not think pride of birth, father, a mistaken prejudice as
well as pride of riches?”

“Pride of any sort, my love, cannot exactly be defended on evangelical
principles; but surely some distinctions among men are necessary, even
for quiet. Were the levelling principle acknowledged, the lettered
and the accomplished must descend to an equality with the ignorant
and vulgar, since all men cannot rise to the attainments of the former
class, and the world would retrograde to barbarism. The character of
a Christian gentleman is much too precious to trifle with in order to
carry out an impracticable theory.”

Anna was silent. Probably she was confused between the opinions which
she most liked to cherish and the faint glimmerings of truth to which
we are reduced by the ordinary relations of life. As for the good rector
himself, I had no difficulty in understanding his bias, though neither
his premises nor his conclusions possessed the logical clearness that
used to render his sermons so delightful, more especially when he
preached about the higher qualities of the Saviour's dispensation, such
as charity, love of our fellows, and, in particular, the imperative duty
of humbling ourselves before God.

A month after this accidental dialogue, chance made me auditor of what
passed between my ancestor and Sir Joseph Job, another celebrated dealer
in the funds, in an interview that took place in the house of the former
in Cheapside. As the difference was so PATENT, as the French express it,
I shall furnish the substance of what passed.

“This is a serious and a most alarming movement, Mr. Goldencalf,”
 observed Sir Joseph, “and calls for union and cordiality among the
holders of property. Should these damnable opinions get fairly abroad
among the people, what would become of us? I ask, Mr. Goldencalf, what
would become of us?”

“I agree with you, Sir Joseph, it is very alarming!--frightfully
alarming!”

“I have even thought of marrying,” I continued--so occupied with my own
theories as not to weigh, with the accuracy that becomes the frankness
and superior advantages which man possesses over the gentler sex, the
full import of my words; “could I find one, Anna, as gentle, as good,
as beautiful, and as wise as yourself who would consent to be mine, I
should not wait a minute; but, unhappily, I fear this is not likely to
be my blessed lot. I am not the grandson of a baronet, and your father
expects to unite you with one who can at least show that the 'bloody
hand' has once been born on his shield; and, on the other side, my
father talks of nothing but millions.” During the first part of this
speech the amiable girl looked kindly up at me, and with a seeming
desire to soothe me; but at its close her eyes dropped upon her work
and she remained silent. “Your father says that every man who has an
interest in the state should give it pledges”--here Anna smiled, but
so covertly that her sweet mouth scarce betrayed the impulse--“and that
none others can ever control it to advantage. I have thought of asking
my father to buy a borough and a baronetcy, for with the first, and the
influence that his money gives, he need not long wish for the last; but
I never open my lips on any matter of the sort that he does not answer
'Fol lol der rol, Jack, with your knighthoods, and social order, and
bishoprics, and boroughs--property is in danger!--loans and regiments,
if thou wilt--give us more order “ORDER--order”--bayonets are what
we want, boy, and good wholesome taxes, to accustom the nation to
contribute to its own wants and to maintain its credit. Why, youngster,
if the interest on the debt were to remain unpaid twenty-four hours,
your body corporate, as you call it, would die a natural death; and what
would then become of your knights--barro-knights?--and barren enough
some of them are getting to be by their wastefulness and extravagance.
Get thee married, Jack, and settle prudently. There is neighbor
Silverpenny has an only daughter of a suitable age; and a good hussy is
she in the bargain. The only daughter of Oliver Silverpenny will be a
suitable wife for the only son of Thomas Goldencalf; though I give thee
notice, boy, that thou wilt be cut off with a competency; so keep thy
head clear of extravagant castle-building, learn economy in season, and,
above all, make no debts.'” Anna laughed as I humorously imitated the
well-known intonations of Mr. Speaker Sutton, but a cloud darkened her
bright features when I concluded.

“Why, that is neither here nor there; perhaps I don't double either of
the capes, perhaps I do. I get into the South Sea with my craft, and
it's of no great moment how it's done. A skin is worth just as much in
the market, though the furrier may not happen to have a glossary of the
road it has travelled.”

“A glossary?”

“What matters a signification, commodore, when people understand
each other? This overland journey has put me to my wits, for you will
understand that I've had to travel among natives that cannot speak a
syllable of the homespun; so I brought the schooner's dictionary with
me as a sort of terrestrial almanac, and I fancied that, as they spoke
gibberish to me, the best way was to give it to them back again as near
as might be in their own coin, hoping I might hit on su'thin' to
their liking. By this means I've come to be rather more voluble than
formerly.”

“The idea was happy.”